# python-challenge_reja

****Background****


It's time to put away the Excel sheet and enter the world of programming with Python. In this assignment, you'll use the concepts you've learned to complete two Python challenges, PyBank and PyPoll. Both tasks present a real-world situation where your newly developed Python scripting skills come in handy.

**Before You Begin**


Before starting the assignment, be sure to complete the following steps:

- Created a new repository into my GitHub for this project called **python-challenge_reja**. 

- Cloned the new repository to my computer.

- Inside my local Git repository, created a folder for each Python assignment and named them **PyBank** and **PyPoll**.

- In each folder that I just created, added the following content:

  - Two new files called **pybank.py** and **pypoll.py**. These files are the main script files to run for each 
    analysis.

  - A **Resources** folder that contains the CSV files I used for each Python assignment. 

  - An **Analysis** folder that contains my text file that has the results from each Python analysis.

- Finally, Pushed these changes to GitHub or GitLab.


**Files**


Downloaded the following files to get started:

Module 3 Challenge [files](https://courses.bootcampspot.com/courses/3819/assignments/56669?module_item_id=999420)


**PyBank Instructions**


In this Challenge, I was tasked with creating a Python script to analyze the financial records of my company. I was given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv. The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses".

My task was to create a Python script that analyzes the records to calculate each of the following values:

- The total number of months included in the dataset

- The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period

- The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes

- The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

- The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period


In addition, my final script printed the analysis to the terminal and exported a text file with the results.



**PyPoll Instructions**


In this Challenge, I was tasked with helping a small, rural town modernize its vote-counting process.

I was given a set of poll data called election_data.csv. The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". My task was to create a Python script that analyzes the votes and calculates each of the following values:

- The total number of votes cast

- A complete list of candidates who received votes

- The percentage of votes each candidate won

- The total number of votes each candidate won

- The winner of the election based on the popular vote

In addition, my final script printed the analysis to the terminal and exported a text file with the results.


**References**

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC and is intended for educational purposes only.


